was to see a movie.
I remember Gone with the Wind.
And a lot of shoot-em-ups.
We'd go Saturday nights, go see some good cowboys.
And other than that, we didn't have any money.
I didn't have any money to spend on much.
And what movies were there?
Do you remember the names of them, Downtown Bryan?
That's what I say.
Gone.
Oh, you mean the movie Houses?
Well, there were two of them.
Gee, I want to say one of them was a Texan, but I don't know that that was it.
I don't remember.
I remember the location.
One right across the street from each other, but one up next to that LaSalle, or in that LaSalle Hotel area, and I think there was a library on the other side, and I think this theater was close to that library downtown, as I recall.
Describe the Northgate area firm.
Oh, that was a super area.
You could buy a 15,
20 cent hamburgers, nickel cokes.
You could have a date and on 75 cents, you'd have a royal date at the North Gate.
Brilliant, true, good stuff.
And it was just the hub of activity.
There wasn't any other gate like it.
I mean, North Gate was it, the bookstores,
other than our collegiate bookstore.
And yeah, that's where the drug store was.
Was there anything at Southgate then?
Over there where Maid Liz would later be?
Never, not to my recollection.
There just wasn't any activity over there.
The project houses, tell me about those.
Well, my brother, I didn't, I wasn't,
They were primarily for the boys who returned.
As I recall, education was interrupted by the war.
And they got married during the war, and they'd have my brother and his wife and their first child lived in those project houses.
In fact, when I got back overseas, George was already in the house, and I spent a night or two one weekend with him there.
Now, during your undergraduate days, there weren't any major earth-shaking events on campus.
There was no fire or anything.
Was there any?
No, I don't recall anything of any magnitude other than the fact that when Pearl Harbor was attacked, that is the largest single thing that I recall during my period there, except winning some great football games.
Yeah, we all remember
where we were when we heard the news then.
I was a sixth grader in Fort Smith, Arkansas on, well, let's see, December 8, where were you, did you hear President Roosevelt's speech to Congress?
I did not.
Yesterday?
Did not.
December 7th, today?
Since then, I heard it and have now seen it.
But, no, we
I don't know that we had a radio.
I don't know whether John and I had a radio or not.
I can't remember.
Let's see.
Did the average student smoke?
Average student smoked.
And what did they smoke?
What brands?
Lucky Strike was a big one in those days.
Until Lucky Strike Green went to war.
And that's what I smoked.
No, I don't.
Some of the boys roll their own, but they, I think they really did it out of, they knew, no, I don't ever remember chewing tobacco.
Several of the baseball, the cadets who were baseball players, you know, that was a big thing, didn't have tobacco.
In fact, I was a pitcher on our softball team, and I remember I thought, you know, maybe that's what I couldn't take.
But I smoked in college.
And let's see.
Were there some places that either literally or secretly were off limits to students?
Or some places y'all simply were not supposed to go?
Not officially.
I don't know.
I don't recall that there was any official.
Was there any red light area in... There was in Bryan.
In Bryan?
Where?
Close to that theater right there.
See, the LaSalle was the bigger hotel.
Then there was a smaller hotel on the other side over there.
But I don't recall anyone ever saying, no, you can't go down there.
You just didn't.
You either did or you didn't.
All right, the drill field.
What all happened on the drill field?
Well, that's where, in our case, the field artillery
We were horse drawn.
We'd go through our activities on that drill field with our caissons and horses.
Of course, we had a place across the tracks close to the stables where we trained and worked.
And we'd actually go through maneuvers on the parade ground.
It was fun.
It was great.
Yeah.
Those were romantic days as it relates to real military.
Was there a polo team?
Oh, yes.
Where did the polo...
I don't know that.
Those were cavalry boys for the most part.
Yeah, we had, the cavalry was handsome.
We had some great horses at A&M.
Alright, final review, where?
On the parade.
Describe it for me.
Fantastic.
Well, that of course is when the entire Corps marches, the viewing stand which encompasses
visiting dignitaries, but certainly the commandant, the president of the institution, and chosen other, I don't know who else, I know now, but I didn't know then.
And you have the full band, and it's a, if you're a commander like I was, you actually have your saber, you actually salute with your saber and you have it.
It's great.
It's a thrill.
Just a tremendous thrill to hear that band and 7,000 guys.
You know, it's a big bunch of military.
That's a bunch of folks.
And it was beautiful.
I say to myself, with all those seniors in their boots and very serious, we took our military very, very seriously.
And those that were in command, because we were going to go on and certainly get our
commission.
So we wouldn't have been in command had we not been serious about it.
And with the war being on, you all had to know in the back of your mind what might be next.
Absolutely.
You heard that from your family, your friends, and you heard it from the officers who you were working with.
Did you go through a commencement?
Graduation?
Did go through a graduation, but I'd call it a mini.
Where was it held?
In Guyon Hall that
You know, the one that they finally tore down.
See, there was something over there by the Aggieland Inn, right close to Sabisa.
There was a hall there.
Something that I don't want to, I called it Guyana a while ago, but I don't believe Guyana Hall was the brick building.
Yes, at the south end of Military Walk.
Yes.
That's where we got our degree.
Okay.
Every name called?
Hand shaken?
I don't think so.
Now, who was the president of the university, of the college when you were?
Well, I think Walton.
Walton, okay.
I believe he's on.
In fact, I had my diploma in the car.
I was gonna.
I think that's right.
There's a place in College State, I take this, and it's in good shape.
But I think they do something with it to kind of dress it up, and I couldn't remember their name.
Silver Taps.
Oh, yes.
Tell me about Silver Taps.
Well, you didn't have the automobile accidents.
You just didn't have the fatalities in those days that you have today.
Of course, it was 7,000 as opposed to 40,000 or 42.
And not having automobiles, it just weren't that many, but we'd have it maybe once a month, something like that, and we'd all fall out.
Where?
Right there in front of the academic building.
And those buglers would be up there.
Gee, I still don't know where those rhinos were.
They were up there close to the dome, some area.
And boy, every time I'd hear it, it'd do something.
I mean, I never, I didn't look forward to it because I knew what it represented.
By the same token, it was a thrilling experience.
And I'll tell you this, I take great pride asking the fact that my big bells tolled
You betcha.
I'm really delighted that I was able to become a part of that because Silver Taps has always been, for our first time, just terrific, terrific.
Mustard?
Fabulous.
Where was Mustard held on campus then?
I want to say in front of the
the system building, but I'm not certain of that.
I'm not certain of that.
I don't recall.
Okay.
You're getting ready to leave the campus to go off to war.
What did you think was ahead of you?
Well, here again, youth, the Lord, you know, takes youth and prepares them to
look at things with a gleam in their eye and very little problem with their rear.
And speaking for myself, I couldn't wait.
I could not wait to get involved in this thing because many of my friends had already gone and were in it.
And I was a good officer.
I knew I'd be a good officer, but I wanted to be a good officer.
How well did you think A&M had prepared you for the world you were gonna be a part of?
At OCS, which was Camp Hood, and it was tough.
It was really tough.
Very, very rigorous.
In that class we had University of Kansas ROTC boys, we had Harvard boys, we had Princeton boys.
We had about seven schools
ROTC, and there were 13 of us at A&M.
It wasn't even a close race.
It wasn't every calisthenics.
Who led the calisthenics?
An Aggie.
Who led at Review, when we were in Review?
I got to do it a time or two, and Jack Miller did, and Walter Cardwell.
Walter was in our outfit.
Willie Zappalack.
We had a great bunch of guys.
We were, those boys, you know, what the difference was, I don't mean to be mean it, their program was totally different.
They had a few hours each Thursday afternoon.
Man, we had that many before breakfast.
To answer your question, I could not have asked for any more what A&M gave me in terms of preparing me emotionally, intellectually, militarily,
than what it did.
Couldn't ask for it anymore.
Okay, we're getting now to the important question.
What did it mean to you, now that you look back on it, what did it mean to you in your life that you went to amen?
Well, number one, I became a man, a young man, but I became a young man at Texas A&M.
I was a boy when I left high school.
And I'd say by my junior year, I was beginning to get a feel for what it meant to be a leader.
If you want to be a leader, you've learned the basic elements that it takes for true leadership.
And one of the things that I learned at A&M that has stood the test for me for years is that fine balance of authority and responsibility.
There has to be this balance.
You're given authority.
If you're not given at least a sufficient amount of responsibility, you can't do it.
By the same token, people sometimes misuse authority by being irresponsible.
So you have to manage this.
And if you're given a position of authority, by golly, a lot of responsibility goes with that authority.
By the same token, if you're asked to take on a task,
You must have enough authority to be able to do it.
I learned that at A&M, that fine balance of authority and responsibility, and it is a fine balance.
But I learned all these other things, too, as I said earlier, integrity and character and recognition of character.
What feelings do you have in your heart for A&M now?
I mean, I truly do.
I love my family.
I love my country.
I have a number of loves, but I tell you, A&M to me was the embodiment.
Earl Rudder expressed it so well.
He called our goal of the whole man, and now it would be the whole woman and or man.
And I asked him on one of our trips that we had gone to the LSU game.
We used to go to New Orleans and catch that train.
And you used to get off right, the train went right to the LSU stadium.
We had some great times down there.
And on one of these trips, I asked, I said, Earl, I heard you say this whole man.
What is a whole man?
Have you heard this?
It's excellent.
He said, we want to turn out a student that is well educated, can take his place,
in his community on graduation, compete, be a fine American citizen, love his country, be the whole man, educated citizen that will get involved in his community immediately, take charge, that's what we want.
We don't want to just turn out educated people.
We want the whole man concept and that's
I think that's a pretty darn good goal.
Let's quit with that.